# Evaluation of DC Link Capacitors in Integrated Modular Motor Drives

## Abstract
In this research work, a review of integrated modular motor drive (IMMD) technologies is performed. Current research and future prospects are studied. Challenges of the IMMD technologies are discussed. Inverter topologies and gate drive techniques are evaluated in terms of DC link performance. DC Link capacitor types are discussed and critical aspects in selecting the DC links capacitor are listed. Analytical modeling of DC link capacitor parameters is performed and it is verified by simulations conducted using MATLAB/Simulink. Selection of optimum DC Link capacitor is achieved based on the model, capacitor selection algorithm and simulation results.

## Keywords
integrated modular motor drive; split winding motor; DC Link capacitor; interleaving; GaN transistor

## Introduction

Electric motor drives constitute nearly 45 % of global electricity usage [ref]. Presently, most of the electric energy is generated by means of fossil fuels which means that increase in energy efficiency in motor drive systems will yield not only economical but also environmental benefits.

In conventional motor drive systems, drive units are placed in a cabinet and connected to the motor by means of long cables. Placing the motor and its drive separately increases to the volume and weight of the system decreasing the system power density. In applications such as aerospace or electric traction where motor drives are fundamental elements, power density plays an important role in the design.

In addition, due to the long connection cables, high voltage transients on the motor windings caused by PWM operation occurs on the motor terminals causing leakage currents through stator winding insulation. This effect leads to aging of insulations and shortening of motor lifetime. One measure for this effect is the utilization of filters between motor drive and inverters which is a bulky and costly solution.



Integrated structure:
Long cable effect (aging, EMI)
Increased power density (kW/liter, kW/kg)


Modular strucutere:
voltage stress on each module is reduced
Easier fabrication, intallation, maintenance and repairment
Better fault tolerance
Cost is reduced?
Better thermal perfoemance due to distribution
Hot spot temperature is reduced


Challenges and research opportunities:
Cooling of both motor and drive simultaneously
Fitting the passive elements in a smaller footprint
Physical vibration exerted on the power electronics and controller
High frequency operation is beneficial to decrease component volumes. High frequency parasitic effects arise which requires optimal placement of components

Bizim önerdiğimiz yeniliklerden bahsedecek miyiz???


## IMMD Technology Review

* Concept of IMMD

Buraya bir-iki görsel gelecek (referans)


* IMMD topologies

* Wide Bandgap Power Semicondcutor Devices

* Modular Motor with Split Winding

## DC Link Modeling

* Analytical Modeling

* Effect of Interleaving

## DC Link Capacitor Evaluation

* Types of Capacitors

* Capacitor Selection Aspects

* Capacitor Selection Algorithm

## Results


## Conclusions

## Acknowledgements

## References
1.	T. Morita et al., “99.3% Efficiency of three-phase inverter for motor drive using GaN-based gate injection transistors,” Conf. Proc. - IEEE Appl. Power Electron. Conf. Expo. - APEC, pp. 481–484, 2011.
2.	J. J. Wolmarans, M. B. Gerber, H. Polinder, S. W. H. De Haan, J. A. Ferreira, and D. Clarenbach, “A 50kW integrated fault tolerant permanent magnet machine and motor drive,” PESC Rec. - IEEE Annu. Power Electron. Spec. Conf., pp. 345–351, 2008.
3.	J. Wang, “A New Concept of Multilevel Converter Motor Drive with Modular Design and Split Winding Machine,” 2014.
4.	G. Su, “A Segmented Drive Inverter Topology with a Small DC Bus Capacitor,” Energy, pp. 2847–2853, 2010.
5.	N. Bianchi and M. Dai Pre, “Analytical calculation of the RMS current stress on the DC-link capacitor of voltage-PWM converter systems,” IEE Proceedings-Electric Power Appl., vol. 150, no. 2, pp. 139–145, 2003.
6.	M. D. Hennen, M. Niessen, C. Heyers, H. J. Brauer, and R. W. De Doncker, “Development and control of an integrated and distributed inverter for a fault tolerant five-phase switched reluctance traction drive,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 547–554, 2012.
7.	J. Wang, Y. Li, and Y. Han, “Evaluation and design for an integrated modular motor drive (IMMD) with GaN devices,” 2013 IEEE Energy Convers. Congr. Expo. ECCE 2013, no. Immd, pp. 4318–4325, 2013.
8.	T. M. Jahns, “Hardware Integratio on for an Integrated Mod dular Motor Drive Incl luding Distributed Contr rol,” pp. 4881–4887, 2014.
9.	D. Zhang, F. Wang, R. Burgos, R. Lai, and D. Boroyevich, “Impact of interleaving on AC passive components of paralleled three-phase voltage-source converters,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 46, no. 3, pp. 1042–1054, 2010.
10.	S. M. Lambert, B. C. Mecrow, R. Abebe, G. Vakil, and C. M. Johnson, “Integrated Drives for Transport - A Review of the Enabling Electronics Technology,” IEEE Veh. Power Propuls. Conf., pp. 1–6, 2015.
11.	S. M. Lambert, B. C. Mecrow, R. Abebe, G. Vakil, and C. M. Johnson, “Integrated Drives for Transport - A review of the enabling thermal management technology,” IEEE Veh. Power Propuls. Conf., pp. 1–6, 2015.
12.	J. Wang, Y. Li, and Y. Han, “Integrated Modular Motor Drive Design With GaN Power FETs,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 51, no. c, pp. 3198–3207, 2015.
13.	L. Calzo, “Mecrow , Barrie ( 2016 ) Integrated motor drives : state of the art and future trends . IET Electric Power Applications,” 2016.
14.	N. R. Brown, T. M. Jahns, and R. D. Lorenz, “Power Converter Design for an Integrated Modular Motor Drive,” Ind. Appl. Conf. 2007. 42nd IAS Annu. Meet. Conf. Rec. 2007 IEEE, pp. 1322–1328, 2007.
15.	Galassini, A. Costabeber, C. Gerada, G. Buticchi, and D. Barater, “State space model of a modular speed-drooped system for high reliability integrated modular motor drives,” Electr. Syst. Aircraft, Railw. Sh. Propulsion, ESARS, vol. 2015–May, 2015.
