#Utilization of photovoltaic systems for reactive power compensation in low voltage power systems

**Abstract:**Decreasing cell prices and advancing technology increase penetration of the renewable sources into low voltage power systems. Small and medium scale industrial loads as well as office and residential buildings are installing photovoltaic systems in order to reduce electricity bills. Despite their benefits, photovoltaic systems bring additional challenges in terms of system operation. As well known, small sized photovoltaic systems work at unity power factor, therefore, they do not contribute to reactive power compensation while they decrease active power demand of the building they are connected to. Even though reactive power demand of the considered load is small, due to very low active power demand, power factor may become significantly small. This work proposes use of solar powered renewable sources to perform reactive power compensation in places where reactive power compensation is obligatory. In other words, the inverters existing in the panels can be used to supply reactive power in order to compensate the reactive power demand of the loads. In present systems, conventional reactive power compensation units are utilized for medium scale powered buildings. They are bulky, costly and their operation is only applicable to inductive reactive power. However, there might be capacitive loads as in the case of Ayaslı Research Center, which is located in Middle East Technical University, Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering. In such a case, those high cost units are unnecessary but utilized for possible future inductive operations. Therefore, unless the system operation is inductive, they do not operate at all.  

Static reactive power compensation units such as STATCOMs are widely used in medium voltage distribution level and high voltage transmission level systems. However, their utilization in low voltage systems is not common due to cost considerations. In this paper, static compensation in low voltage applications via inverter of a photovoltaic system is proposed and it is believed that it is more feasible than conventional reactive power compensation units, which are mechanically controlled by contactors. The photovoltaic systems can supply active power, while compensating the reactive power demand.  This can be done via increasing the size of the photovoltaic system, i.e. inverter size and DC bus capacitor size should be increased. Note that, increasing size of the inverter system will not only cause an increased installation cost but also a higher operational cost due to higher conduction losses. However, considering installation and operational costs of a conventional compensation unit, it is expected that the proposed solution will be cheaper. Moreover, it is well known that static reactive power compensation performs better and faster compared to conventional units, which will decrease current drawn from the grid. This will decrease bills due to the decreased current magnitude.   

In the final paper, a formal mathematical method will be presented in order to compare the cost of photovoltaic-based compensation with that of conventional method. Although, for many cases photovoltaic systems will be preferable, for some certain cases, conventional compensation methods may be cheaper. The proposed evaluation will include cost of installation and operation as well as maintenance. The feasibility of the proposed method will be investigated in terms of amount of reactive power demand and its profitability by years. The propositions will be applied to a real life case study. The low voltage system of Ayaslı Research Center, which has a 50 KWp photovoltaic system and a 50 kVAR reactive power compensation unit, will be considered, such that installation and operational costs of those systems will be compared.
