#Cost Investigation between usage of Power Compensation Unit and Reactive Power Control of the Inverter

**Abstract:** Penetration of the renewable sources are increasing each passing day. Advances in the technology increases this penetration further. Photovoltaic systems especially are observed in the offices, medium scale residential buildings. The high amount of renewable sources and their expected increase in the near future bring some auxiliary services as voltage and frequency support. They can also be used for reactive power generation in places where reactive power compensation is obligatory. In other words, the inverters existing in the panels can be used for capacitive reactive power generation in order to compensate the reactive power demand in their loads. However, it is obvious that this replacement of conventional reactive power compensation units with oversized inverters needs special investigation in terms of cost and performance.  

In this study, it is proposed that conventional old PFC units can be eliminated in the system thanks to the inverters' wide variety power factor capability. This can be done by making use of capacitive operation of the inverters with keeping the active power output maximum. Therefore, an over sizing inverter is necessary in order to keep active power maximum. Over sizing the inverter would bring some disadvantages in terms of long term costs(high conduction losses and one time costs (oversized inverter). However, it is also obvious that compensation units are one time cost as themselves and they also have internal losses. Moreover, they operate in a discrete way in contrast the inverters wide range of power generation capacity. Finally, the maintenance costs should be investigated depending on the maintenance frequency. 

Finally, these investigation will be applied to the case study. Ayaslı Research Center with PV units(50 KWp) and PFC unit (50 kVAr) will be the case where the costs will be calculated. By making use of these investigations, one time costs and long term costs will be compared in order to reach the optimized choice. It is expected that bulky compensation unit cost would be higher for some years. Depending on the time that their costs will be equal, optimal choice for the case study will be evaluated.  Finally, depending on the reactive power demand, selection between PFC unit and oversized inverter will be assessed. 