## GRW-2017 Abstract
### Integrated Modular Motor Drives (IMMDs)
##### min:250, max:500 words


In this research work, a new concept called Integrated Modular Motor Drive (IMMD) is presented. A review of IMMD technologies is given and current research and future prospects are studied. In conventional motor drive systems, drive units are placed at a separate cabinet and connected to the motor with long cables bringing increased volume and weight to the system. This causes limitations in applications such as electric traction, aerospace and space where power density is critical. Moreover, Electromagnetic interference (EMI) problems emerge due to the connection cables which can cause high voltage transients contributing to the aging of motor winding insulations. The IMMD concept proposes that the motor drive unit can be integrated directly to the motor back-end such that, power density of the overall system can be enhanced significantly as well as cost can be reduced since separate panels or cables are eliminated. Modularization of the system suggests that the whole system can be divided into several parts. The main motivation behind this modular structure is increasing the fault tolerance of the system such that operation can continue with reduced power rating in case of one or more parts fail. Furthermore, voltage stress on both power electronics and motor windings can be reduced and the heat dissipation can be distributed.
Apart from these advantages, integration of the motor and the drive brings some challenges. All the drive components including power semiconductor devices, passive elements, control electronics and heat sink should be fit into a much smaller volume, which needs volume reduction in components. Moreover, the power electronics and control electronics are directly subjected to a vibrational and high temperature environment due to being close to the motor. These challenges can be addressed by the utilization of wide band-gap power semiconductor devices such as SiC or GaN, drive frequency of which can be high while keeping the efficiency with acceptable values. Increasing the frequency yields size reduction of passive elements and enhancing the system efficiency decreases the heat sink requirement. In addition, interleaving technique can be effectively used since the system is modular, which can further minimize the passive components by decreasing the voltage and current ripples. On the other hand, use of such devices brings additional problems related to parasitic components on both power stage and gate drive. The layout design is much more critical compared to conventional motor drive systems since the parasitic effects become prominent with increasing drive frequency. Moreover, careful attention should be paid for possible coupling effects between the power stage and control stage.
DC link capacitor banks usually constitute the largest volume of motor drive systems. Therefore, selection of optimum DC link capacitor is also critical in IMMD designs in the sense of power density, height, temperature rise, lifetime and cost.

Modeling of DC link has been achieved considering DC link ripple voltage, DC link RMS ripple current and temperature rise

Commercially available off-the-shelf DC link capacitors with different properties are considered including capacitor type, capacitance DC voltage rating, ripple current rating, lifetime, volume and height

Different combinations of series and parallel connections of various capacitors are studied
